Ingredients:

For Khaman:

 Fortune Besan 1 cup
 Rava 1 tbsp
 Sugar 1 tbsp
 Lemon juice 2 tbsp
 Water 1 cup
 Salt to taste
 Green chili and ginger paste 1 tbsp
 Turmeric powder ¼ tsp
 Fortune Sunflower Oil 1 tbsp
 Baking powder ¼ tsp
 Baking soda ¼ tsp

For tempering

 Fortune Sunflower Oil 2 tbsp
 Mustard seeds 1 tsp
 Few curry leaves
 Hing 1 tsp
 Slit green chillies 3
 Water 1 cup
 Salt
 Sugar 1 tbsp


Steps

 In a bowl using a sieve, sift Fortune Besan and ensure all lumps are removed.
 Technique in focus #1: Add lemon juice so that baking soda reacts with the citric acid and
aerates the Khaman
 Now add rava, sugar, lemon juice and give it a mix. Now slowly start adding the water and
keep mixing to avoid lumps.
 Technique in focus #2: Add very less turmeric powder otherwise your Khaman will have
red spots or will be completely red instead of yellow.
 Now add in salt to taste, green chili and ginger paste, turmeric powder and oil and give it a
mix.
 Technique in focus #3: Keep the steamer hot and do not start with a cold steamer.
 Grease a cake tin or a khaman thali with some oil.
 Technique in focus #4: Add the baking soda and baking powder just before steaming and
not before. Once added give it a very short stir. You will notice that the batter will rise.
 Add the batter immediately to the greased tin and steam it for around 15 minutes. Check
with a toothpick and the tooth pick should come clean when poked in the centre of the
khaman.
 Remove the tin from the steamer and let the khaman cool down.
 Meanwhile make the tempering by setting a pan on medium flame.
 Heat some Fortune Sunflower Oil and add mustard seeds, few curry leaves, hing and green
chillies. Let the mustard seeds and curry leaves splutter for half a minute and then add water,
salt, sugar and stir. Let the mixture simmer for 8-10 minutes.
 Technique in focus #5: Add the tempering first and let the khaman soak the tempering.
Then again add the tempering for the second time so that the khaman soaks the tempering
and the khaman will turn out to be soft and not dry.
 Once the khaman has cooled down, demould the khaman carefully. Cut into preferable
pieces and pour half of the tempering on top.
 Let the khamn soak the tempering for around 7-8 minutes and then add rest of the tempering
on top. Let the khaman soak the tempering properly for another 10-15 minutes.
 Your khaman is ready to be served along with some green chutney and tamarind chutney.